Source: https://12factor.net/blog

The Twelve-Factor App
The Twelve-Factor Blog
App
Community
GitHub
Why Intuit is Thrilled About the Evolution of the Twelve-Factor Model
03 Apr, 2025
Brett Weaver
At Intuit, we’ve long embraced the twelve-factor app principles as a guiding framework for modern software development. As a company building cutting-edge development tools and runtime platforms for our internal engineers, these principles have been instrumental in unifying service developers, platform engineers, and SREs under a shared philosophy.
read on…
Evolving Twelve-Factor: Applications to Modern Cloud-Native Platforms
10 Feb, 2025
Brian Hammons
The recent
open sourcing of the Twelve-Factor App Methodology
comes at a transformative moment for cloud-native platforms. As organizations increasingly rely on cloud-native technologies to power mission-critical workloads, the principles behind Twelve-Factor offer timeless foundations that remain relevant for modern platform builders.
read on…
December Monthly Updates
3 Dec, 2024
Vish Abrams
Welcome to our first monthly update! We’re excited to share our progress and what’s coming next.
What We’ve Been Working On
In addition to some minor formatting fixes, our initial focus has been on getting organized for larger updates. Here are the key activities:
read on…
Twelve-Factor App Methodology is now Open Source
12 Nov, 2024
Yehuda Katz
Join us in modernizing the twelve-factor app manifesto together.
As a community of app, framework and platform developers, we’re working together to refresh this foundational document for the modern era. While it’s not software we’re working on, we’ll use familiar processes like pull requests, issues, and reviews to collaborate together in the
twelve-factor project repo
.
This initiative builds on a strong foundation laid by Heroku when they originally created “The Twelve-Factor App” all the way back in 2011, a time when container-based deployment was still just emerging. Back then, developers could get apps running on their local machines, but common development mistakes often made it challenging to deploy those apps to production.
read on…
Narrow Conduits and the Application-Platform Interface
12 Nov, 2024
Vish Abrams
Welcome to the twelve-factor maintainters blog. As stated in
our announcement
, some of our posts will analyze the manifesto more generically. This is the first post in that vein, where we dive into the interface between the application and the platform.
It is well understood that defining a clear contract between parts of a system allows one to shed cognitive load on either side of the contract. This has been called the “narrow-waist” principle which has some unfortunate connotations, so we’ll refer to it as the “narrow-conduit” principle. This principle is especially valuable when the humans on either side of the conduit have dramatically different concerns.
read on…