Source: https://docs.ghost.org/faq/update-0x

Update From Ghost 0.X Versions - Ghost Developer Docs
Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at:
/llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Ghost Developer Docs
home page
Search...
⌘
K
Search...
Navigation
Update From Ghost 0.X Versions
Home
Documentation
Migration Guides
Update From Ghost 0.X Versions
If you’re running Ghost 0.x versions, your site must be updated to Ghost 1.0 before it can be successfully updated to Ghost 2.0 and beyond.
It’s recommended to update to the latest version of Ghost to keep your site and data secure, and gain access to the latest features in Ghost. For a successful upgrade, ensure that Ghost, Ghost CLI, and Node are all on compatible versions. Use our
Node Compatibility Matrix
as a reference.
This is a major update with
breaking changes
.
​
1. First, make a full backup
Whenever doing a manual update it’s a good idea to take a full backup of your site first. If anything goes wrong, you’ll still have all your data.
Start by exporting a JSON file backup of all your posts from the
Labs
area of Ghost Admin.
Then, make a copy of your entire
/content
directory as a backup for themes and images.
​
2. Update your theme
Quite a few things have changed compared to the pre 1.0 version of Ghost, so you’ll need to make some changes to your theme. To see what changes need to be made, download a copy of your theme zip file, and upload it to
GScan
.
GScan will provide a report on any new features in the Ghost theme API which are not being used, or any old ones you might be using which have been deprecated - so you can get everything fixed up.
​
3. Create a brand new Ghost install
There is no direct update path to the latest version of Ghost, so you’ll need to create a brand new install to migrate to.
Major versions of Ghost break compatibility to allow the platform to evolve. Creating a new install means you’ll have the latest version of the app while still being able to import your old content.
On Ghost(Pro) this takes a few clicks, or if you’re self-hosting you can follow our in-depth guides.
To install v1 run the command
ghost install --v1
​
4. Migrate your content from old to new
Once the new install is set up, the only thing left to do is to import all of the content which was backed up at the start of this process.
​
Import JSON
To begin the migration, head to the
Labs
section of Ghost Admin and import the
ghost.json
backup which you exported earlier. The importer will let you know if there are any issues.
​
Copy images
Password tokens are not migrated, so all users will need to go through the password reset flow to unlock their accounts. If you have any trouble, start by searching the docs and the forum for help!
​
5. Update to the latest version
Now that you’ve successfully updated from Ghost 0.x versions to 1.0, you can proceed to update to the latest version to access all
new features
, and keep your site secure — follow this
guide
to get started.
​
6. Upload theme
Finally, upload your updated theme to the
Design
section of Ghost Admin to get your site looking the same way it did before. Again, the theme uploader will tell you if there are any issues.
Suggest edits
Raise issue
⌘
I