Source: https://docs.docker.com/compose/bridge/usage/

Use the default Compose Bridge transformation | Docker Docs
Gordon
Gordon, your AI assistant for Docker docs
Search
Start a new chat
When enabled, Gordon considers the current page you're viewing
to provide more relevant answers.
Share feedback
Answers are generated based on the documentation.
Back
Manuals
Get started
Guides
Reference
Use the default Compose Bridge transformation
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
Requires:
Docker Desktop 4.43.0 and later
Compose Bridge includes a built-in transformation that automatically converts your Compose configuration into a set of Kubernetes manifests.
Based on your
compose.yaml
file, it produces:
A
Namespace
so all your resources are isolated and don't conflict with resources from other deployments.
A
ConfigMap
with an entry for each and every
config
resource in your Compose application.
Deployments
for application services. This ensures that the specified number of instances of your application are maintained in the Kubernetes cluster.
Services
for ports exposed by your services, used for service-to-service communication.
Services
for ports published by your services, with type
LoadBalancer
so that Docker Desktop will also expose the same port on the host.
Network policies
to replicate the networking topology defined in your
compose.yaml
file.
PersistentVolumeClaims
for your volumes, using
hostpath
storage class so that Docker Desktop manages volume creation.
Secrets
with your secret encoded. This is designed for local use in a testing environment.
It also supplies a Kustomize overlay dedicated to Docker Desktop with:
Loadbalancer
for services which need to expose ports on host.
A
PersistentVolumeClaim
to use the Docker Desktop storage provisioner
desktop-storage-provisioner
to handle volume provisioning more effectively.
A
Kustomization.yaml
file to link all the resources together.
If your Compose file defines a
models
section for a service, Compose Bridge automatically configures your deployment so your service can locate and use its models via Docker Model Runner.
For each declared model, the transformation injects two environment variables:
<MODELNAME>_URL
: The endpoint for Docker Model Runner serving that model
<MODELNAME>_MODEL
: The model’s name or identifier
You can optionally customize these variable names using
endpoint_var
and
model_var
.
The default transformation generates two different overlays - one for Docker Desktop whilst using a local instance of Docker Model Runner, and a
model-runner
overlay with all the relevant Kubernetes resources to deploy Docker Model Runner in a pod.
Environment
Endpoint
Docker Desktop
http://host.docker.internal:12434/engines/v1/
Kubernetes
http://model-runner/engines/v1/
For more details, see
Use Model Runner
.
Use the default Compose Bridge transformation
To convert your Compose file using the default transformation:
$
docker compose bridge convert
Compose looks for a
compose.yaml
file inside the current directory and generates Kubernetes manifests.
Example output:
$
docker compose -f compose.yaml bridge convert
Kubernetes resource backend-deployment.yaml created
Kubernetes resource frontend-deployment.yaml created
Kubernetes resource backend-expose.yaml created
Kubernetes resource frontend-expose.yaml created
Kubernetes resource 0-my-project-namespace.yaml created
Kubernetes resource default-network-policy.yaml created
Kubernetes resource backend-service.yaml created
Kubernetes resource frontend-service.yaml created
Kubernetes resource kustomization.yaml created
Kubernetes resource backend-deployment.yaml created
Kubernetes resource frontend-deployment.yaml created
Kubernetes resource backend-service.yaml created
Kubernetes resource frontend-service.yaml created
Kubernetes resource kustomization.yaml created
Kubernetes resource model-runner-configmap.yaml created
Kubernetes resource model-runner-deployment.yaml created
Kubernetes resource model-runner-service.yaml created
Kubernetes resource model-runner-volume-claim.yaml created
Kubernetes resource kustomization.yaml created
All generated files are stored in the
/out
directory in your project.
Deploy the generated manifests
Important
Before you deploy your Compose Bridge transformations, make sure you have
enabled Kubernetes
in Docker Desktop.
Once the manifests are generated, deploy them to your local Kubernetes cluster:
$
kubectl apply -k out/overlays/desktop/
Tip
You can convert and deploy your Compose project to a Kubernetes cluster from the Compose file viewer.
Make sure you are signed in to your Docker account, navigate to your container in the
Containers
view, and in the top-right corner select
View configurations
and then
Convert and Deploy to Kubernetes
.
Additional commands
Convert a
compose.yaml
file located in another directory:
$
docker compose -f <path-to-file>/compose.yaml bridge convert
To see all available flags, run:
$
docker compose bridge convert --help
What's next?
Explore how you can customize Compose Bridge
Use Model Runner
.
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents