Source: https://docs.docker.com/compose/how-tos/project-name/

Specify a project name | Docker Docs
Gordon
Gordon, your AI assistant for Docker docs
Search
Start a new chat
When enabled, Gordon considers the current page you're viewing
to provide more relevant answers.
Share feedback
Answers are generated based on the documentation.
Back
Manuals
Get started
Guides
Reference
Specify a project name
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
By default, Compose assigns the project name based on the name of the directory that contains the Compose file. You can override this with several methods.
This page offers examples of scenarios where custom project names can be helpful, outlines the various methods to set a project name, and provides the order of precedence for each approach.
Note
The default project directory is the base directory of the Compose file. A custom value can also be set
for it using the
--project-directory
command line option
.
Example use cases
Compose uses a project name to isolate environments from each other. There are multiple contexts where a project name is useful:
On a development host: Create multiple copies of a single environment, useful for running stable copies for each feature branch of a project.
On a CI server: Prevent interference between builds by setting the project name to a unique build number.
On a shared or development host: Avoid interference between different projects that might share the same service names.
Set a project name
Project names must contain only lowercase letters, decimal digits, dashes, and
underscores, and must begin with a lowercase letter or decimal digit. If the
base name of the project directory or current directory violates this
constraint, alternative mechanisms are available.
The precedence order for each method, from highest to lowest, is as follows:
The
-p
command line flag.
The
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME environment variable
.
The
top-level
name:
attribute
in your Compose file. Or the last
name:
if you
specify multiple Compose files
in the command line with the
-f
flag.
The base name of the project directory containing your Compose file. Or the base name of the first Compose file if you
specify multiple Compose files
in the command line with the
-f
flag.
The base name of the current directory if no Compose file is specified.
What's next?
Read up on
working with multiple Compose files
.
Explore some
sample apps
.
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents