Source: https://docs.ghost.org/migration/squarespace

Migrating from Squarespace - Ghost Developer Docs
Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at:
/llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Ghost Developer Docs
home page
Search...
⌘
K
Search...
Navigation
Migrating to Ghost
Migrating from Squarespace
Home
Documentation
Migration Guides
Migrating to Ghost
Migrating from Squarespace
Official guide: How to migrate from Squarespace to Ghost
You can easily migrate your posts from your Squarespace site to Ghost in just a few clicks, using the built-in Squarespace migrator in Ghost Admin.
​
Run the migration
The Squarespace migrator allows you to quickly import content from your Squarespace site to your Ghost publication. You can access the migrator tool from the
Settings → Advanced →
Import/Export
area of Ghost Admin.
It’s helpful to log in to your Squarespace site before running the migration in Ghost Admin.
​
1. Enter your Squarespace URL
To start the migration process, enter the public URL to your Squarespace site, and click
Continue
.
​
2. Export content
Next, click
Open Squarespace settings.
If already logged into Squarespace, this will take you directly to the location of your Squarespace site where an export can be generated.
Click
Export
, which will download an XML file with your content in it.
​
3. Upload content
Once your export has been downloaded, return to the migrator window in Ghost Admin, and select
Click or drag file here to upload
, and navigate to the XML file you downloaded from Squarespace, once uploaded click
Continue
.
If you’re unsure of where the file was saved, check your Downloads folder.
​
4. Review
Ghost will confirm the number of posts and pages that will be imported to your publication. If satisfied, click
Import content
to begin the import of your data.
After a few moments, you’ll see a confirmation message, confirming that your data was successfully migrated to your Ghost site.
​
Redirects
Squarespace categories are converted to
tags
during the migration. The first category for any post will also become the
primary tag
.
You may need to add
redirects
to ensure backlinks lead to the correct content.
Please refer to this list of the
most common redirection rules for Squarespace migrations
.
​
Large and Complex migrations
If your migration needs go beyond what our in-built migration tools can support you can still move to Ghost.
If you’re a
Ghost(Pro) customer
, our Migrations team can support you in migrating your content and subscribers. Learn more and get in touch with the team
here
.
Alternatively, if you are a developer, comfortable with using the command line, or running a self-hosted Ghost instance, we have a suite of
open-source migration tools
to help with large, complex and custom migrations.
Suggest edits
Raise issue
Migrating from Medium
Migrating from Kit
⌘
I