Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-management/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration-puppet-and-mariadb/existing-puppet-modules-for-mariadb

Existing Puppet Modules for MariaDB | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Deployment
Starting & Stopping
Automated Deployment & Administration
Why to Automate MariaDB Deployments and Management
Comparison Between Automation Systems
Automating MariaDB Tasks with Events
Automating Upgrades with MariaDB.Org Downloads REST API
HashiCorp Vault and MariaDB
Orchestrator Overview
Ansible and MariaDB
Puppet and MariaDB
Puppet Overview
Deploying Docker Containers with Puppet
Existing Puppet Modules for MariaDB
Puppet hiera Configuration System
Bolt Examples
MariaDB Containers
Kubernetes and MariaDB
Vagrant and MariaDB
Server Monitoring & Logs
Variables and Modes
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Existing Puppet Modules for MariaDB
Lists available Puppet modules for MariaDB from the Puppet Forge and GitHub, noting that while no official module exists, community and generic MySQL modules are often used.
This page contains links to Puppet modules that can be used to automate MariaDB deployment and configuration. The list is not meant to be exhaustive. Use it as a starting point, but then please do your own research.
Puppet Forge
Puppet Forge is the website to search for Puppet modules, maintained by the Puppet company. Modules are searched by the technology that needs to be automated, and the target operating system.
Search criteria include whether the modules are supported by Puppet or its partners, and whether a module is approved by Puppet. Approved modules are certified by Puppet based on their quality and maintenance standards.
Acceptance Tests
Some modules that support the Puppet Development Kit allow some types of acceptance tests.
We can run a static analysis on a module's source code to find certain bad practices that are likely to be a source of bugs:
Copy
pdk
validate
If a module's authors wrote unit tests, we can run them in this way:
Copy
pdk
test
unit
Supported Modules for MariaDB
At the time of writing, there are no supported or approved modules for MariaDB.
However there is a
mysql module
supported by Puppet, that supports the Puppet Development Kit. Though it doesn't support MariaDB-specific features, it works with MariaDB. Its documentation shows how to use the module to install MariaDB on certain operating systems.
Several unsupported and not approved modules exist for MariaDB and MaxScale.
Resources and References
Puppet Forge
website.
Puppet Development Kit
documentation.
Modules overview
in Puppet documentation.
Beginner's guide to writing modules
in Puppet documentation.
Puppet Supported Modules
page in Puppet Forge.
Content initially contributed by
Vettabase Ltd
.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Deploying Docker Containers with Puppet
Next
Puppet hiera Configuration System
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Puppet Forge
Acceptance Tests
Supported Modules for MariaDB
Resources and References
Was this helpful?