Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/storage-engines/spider/spider-faq

Spider FAQ | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Storage Engines Overview
Choosing the Right Storage Engine
ARCHIVE
ARIA
BLACKHOLE
CONNECT
CSV
DuckDB
FederatedX
InnoDB
MEMORY
MERGE
Mroonga
MyISAM
MyRocks
OQGRAPH
PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA
SEQUENCE Storage Engine
S3 Storage Engine
SphinxSE
Spider
Spider Storage Engine Overview
Spider Storage Engine Introduction
Spider Differences Between SpiderForMySQL and MariaDB
Spider Feature Matrix
Spider Use Cases
Spider Installation
Spider Cluster Management
Spider Case Studies
Spider Benchmarks
Information Schema SPIDER_WRAPPER_PROTOCOLS Table
Spider Storage Engine Core Concepts
Spider System Variables
Spider Table Parameters
Spider Functions
Spider FAQ
VIDEX Storage Engine
Converting Tables from MyISAM to InnoDB
Machine Learning with MindsDB
Legacy Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Spider FAQ
Frequently asked questions about Spider, covering troubleshooting common errors, configuration best practices, and architectural questions regarding HA and sharding.
What does "[ERROR] mysqld: Can't find record in 'spider_tables'" mean?
This happens when you have a Spider table defined that does not point to an existing table on a data node.
Are there minimum Spider settings?
Copy
myisam-recover=FORCE,BACKUP
What does "select spider_ping_table()" in the general log mean?
This is used by Spider monitoring to ask other monitoring nodes the status of a table.
Do I need a primary key on physical tables?
Not having a primary key will generate errors for resynchronizing tables via spider_copy_table().
Can I use Spider on top of Galera shards?
Yes, XA transactions can be disabled from Spider. Until Galera 4.0 fully supports xa transactions, spider can point to a maxscale proxy that can manage transparent node election in case of failure inside a shard group. Note that disabling XA will break cross shard WRITES in case of transaction ROLLBACK.
This architecture need to be used with care if you have a highly transactional workload that can generate cross shard deadlocks.
What are the most used architectures for Spider HA?
Delegation of shard node replication using asynchronous replication and slave election with GTID.
Delegation of shard node replication via active passive HA solutions.
Shard builds via replication into Spider tables is interesting when you can route READS to a pool of Spider nodes reattaching the shards.
What are the most used architectures for Spider Map Reduce?
Map reduce in Spider is limited to a single table. Building spider on top of some views can eliminate the need to use joins.
Replication to universal tables to every shard is commonly used to enable the views on each shard.
What about Grants on shards?
When using MRR and BKA (and you do so with network storage), when Spider needs to create temporary tables on the backends, use the CREATE TEMPORARY TABLES privilege. Spider can still switch to a lower performance solution using
spider_bka_mode=2
, or Query push down or range predicate using
spider_bka_mode=0
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
SPIDER_FLUSH_TABLE_MON_CACHE
Next
VIDEX Storage Engine
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?
What does "[ERROR] mysqld: Can't find record in 'spider_tables'" mean?
Are there minimum Spider settings?
What does "select spider_ping_table()" in the general log mean?
Do I need a primary key on physical tables?
Can I use Spider on top of Galera shards?
What are the most used architectures for Spider HA?
What are the most used architectures for Spider Map Reduce?
What about Grants on shards?
Was this helpful?