Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-management/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration/vagrant-and-mariadb/vagrant-overview-for-mariadb-users

Vagrant Overview for MariaDB Users | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Deployment
Starting & Stopping
Automated Deployment & Administration
Why to Automate MariaDB Deployments and Management
Comparison Between Automation Systems
Automating MariaDB Tasks with Events
Automating Upgrades with MariaDB.Org Downloads REST API
HashiCorp Vault and MariaDB
Orchestrator Overview
Ansible and MariaDB
Puppet and MariaDB
MariaDB Containers
Kubernetes and MariaDB
Vagrant and MariaDB
Creating a Vagrantfile
Vagrant Overview for MariaDB Users
Vagrant Security
Server Monitoring & Logs
Variables and Modes
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Vagrant Overview for MariaDB Users
Introduction to Vagrant's workflow and terminology for database administrators, explaining how it simplifies the creation of reproducible MariaDB development environments.
Vagrant is a tool to create and manage development machines (Vagrant
boxes
). They are usually virtual machines on the localhost system, but they could also be Docker containers or remote machines. Vagrant is open source software maintained by HashiCorp and released under the MIT license.
Vagrant benefits include simplicity, and a system to create test boxes that is mostly independent from the technology used.
For information about installing Vagrant, see
Installation
in Vagrant documentation.
In this page we discuss basic Vagrant concepts.
Vagrant Concepts
Following are the core Vagrant concepts:
Concept
Description
Vagrant Machine
The final environment created from a box. It can be a virtual machine, a container, or a remote cloud server.
Box
A reusable package used to create Vagrant machines. It can be a base OS image downloaded from Vagrant Cloud or a custom-built template.
Provider
The underlying virtualization technology that runs the machine (e.g., VirtualBox, VMware, Hyper-V, Docker).
Provisioner
A tool or script (e.g., Shell, Ansible, Puppet) that automatically installs and configures software on the machine after it is created.
Example
The above concepts are probably easier to understand with an example.
We can use an Ubuntu box as a base to build a Vagrant machine with MariaDB. So we write a Vagrantfile for this purpose. In the Vagrantfile we specify VirtualBox as a provider. And we use the Ansible provisioner to install and configure MariaDB. Once we finish this Vagrantfile, we can run a Vagrant command to start a Vagrant machine, which is actually a VirtualBox VM running MariaDB on Ubuntu.
The following diagram should make the example clear:
vagrant-virtalbox-ansible
Vagrantfiles
A Vagrantfile is a file that describes how to create one or more Vagrant machines. Vagrantfiles use the Ruby language, as well as objects provided by Vagrant itself.
A Vagrantfile is often based on a box, which is usually an operating system in which we are going to install our software. For example, one can create a MariaDB Vagrantfile based on the
ubuntu/trusty64
box. A Vagrantfile can describe a box with a single server, like MariaDB, but it can also contain a whole environment, like LAMP. For most practical use cases, having the whole environment in a single box is more convenient.
Boxes can be searched in
Vagrant Cloud
. Most of their Vagrantfiles are available on GitHub. Searches can be made, among other things, by keyword to find a specific technology, and by provider.
Providers
A provider adds support for creating a specific type of machines. Vagrant comes with several providers, for example:
VirtualBox
allows one to create virtual machines with VirtualBox.
Microsoft-Hyper-V
allows one to create virtual machines with Microsoft Hyper-V.
Docker
allows one to create Docker containers. On non-Linux systems, Vagrant will create a VM to run Docker.
Alternative providers are maintained by third parties or sold by HashiCorp. They allow one to create different types of machines, for example using VMWare.
Some examples of useful providers, recognized by the community:
Vagrant AWS Provider
.
Vagrant Google Compute Engine (GCE) Provider
.
Vagrant Azure Provider
.
OpenVZ
.
vagrant-lxc
.
If you need to create machines with different technologies, or deploy them to unsupported cloud platforms, you can develop a custom provider in Ruby language. To find out how, see
Plugin Development: Providers
in Vagrant documentation. The
Vagrant AWS
Provider was initially written as an example provider.
Provisioners
A provisioner is a technology used to deploy software to the newly created machines.
The simplest provisioner is
shell
, which runs a shell file inside the Vagrant machine.
powershell
is also available.
Other providers use automation software to provision the machine. There are provisioners that allow one to use
Ansible
,
Puppet
, Chef or Salt. Where relevant, there are different provisioners allowing the use of these technologies in a distributed way (for example, using Puppet apply) or in a centralized way (for example, using a Puppet server).
It is interesting to note that there is both a Docker provider and a Docker provisioner. This means that a Vagrant machine can be a Docker container, thanks to the
docker
provisioner. Or it could be any virtualisation technology with Docker running in it, thanks to the
docker
provisioner. In this case, Docker pulls images and starts containers to run the software that should be running in the Vagrant machine.
If you need to use an unsupported provisioning method, you can develop a custom provisioner in Ruby language. See
Plugin Development: Provisioners
in Vagrant documentation.
Plugins
It is possible to install a plugin with this command:
A Vagrantfile can require that a plugin is installed in this way:
A plugin can be a Vagrant plugin or a Ruby gem installable from
rubygems.org
. It is possible to install a plugin that only exists locally by specifying its path.
Changes in Vagrant 3.0
HashiCorp published an article that describes its
plans for Vagrant 3.0
.
Vagrant will switch to a client-server architecture. Most of the logic will be stored in the server, while the development machines will run a thin client that communicates with the server. It will be possible to store the configuration in a central database.
Another notable change is that Vagrant is switching from Ruby to Go. For some time, it will still be possible to use Vagrantfiles and plugins written in Ruby. However, in the future Vagrantfiles and plugins should be written in one of the languages that support
gRPC
(not necessarily Go). Vagrantfiles can also be written in
HCL
, HashiCorp Configuration Language.
Vagrant Commands
This is a list of the most common Vagrant commands. For a complete list, see
Command-Line Interface
in Vagrant documentation.
To list the available machines:
To start a machine from a box:
To connect to a machine:
To see all machines status and their id:
To destroy a machine:
Vagrant Resources and References
Here are some valuable websites and pages for Vagrant users.
Vagrant Up
.
app.vagrantup.com
.
Vagrant Community
.
Vagrant on Wikipedia
.
Vagrant on HashiCorp Learn
.
Content initially contributed by
Vettabase Ltd
.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Creating a Vagrantfile
Next
Vagrant Security
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Vagrant Concepts
Example
Vagrantfiles
Providers
Provisioners
Plugins
Changes in Vagrant 3.0
Vagrant Commands
Vagrant Resources and References
Was this helpful?
Copy
vagrant plugin install <plugin_name>
Copy
require 'plugin_name'
Copy
vagrant box list
Copy
cd /box/directory
vagrant up
Copy
vagrant ssh
Copy
vagrant global-status
Copy
vagrant destroy <id>