Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/storage-engines/connect/using-connect/using-connect-general-information

Using CONNECT - General Information | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Storage Engines Overview
Choosing the Right Storage Engine
ARCHIVE
ARIA
BLACKHOLE
CONNECT
Introduction to the CONNECT Engine
Using CONNECT
Using CONNECT - Condition Pushdown
Using CONNECT - Exporting Data From MariaDB
Using CONNECT - General Information
Using CONNECT - Importing File Data Into MariaDB Tables
Using CONNECT - Indexing
Using CONNECT - Partitioning and Sharding
Using CONNECT - Virtual and Special Columns
Installing CONNECT
CONNECT Create Table Options
CONNECT Data Types
CONNECT Table Types
CONNECT Security
CONNECT System Variables
Adding the REST Feature as a Library Called by an OEM Table
Compiling JSON UDFs in a Separate Library
Making the GetRest Library
OEM Table Example
Current Status of the CONNECT Handler
JSON Sample Files
CSV
DuckDB
FederatedX
InnoDB
MEMORY
MERGE
Mroonga
MyISAM
MyRocks
OQGRAPH
PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA
SEQUENCE Storage Engine
S3 Storage Engine
SphinxSE
Spider
VIDEX Storage Engine
Converting Tables from MyISAM to InnoDB
Machine Learning with MindsDB
Legacy Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Using CONNECT - General Information
The CONNECT storage engine.
The main characteristic of
CONNECT
is to enable accessing data scattered on a machine as if it was a centralized database. This, and the fact that locking is not used by connect (data files are open and closed for each query) makes CONNECT very useful for importing or exporting data into or from a MariaDB database and also for all types of Business Intelligence applications. However, it is not suited for transactional applications.
For instance, the index type used by CONNECT is closer to bitmap indexing than to B-trees. It is very fast for retrieving result but not when updating is done. In fact, even if only one indexed value is modified in a big table, the index is entirely remade (yet this being four to five times faster than for a b-tree index). But normally in Business Intelligence applications, files are not modified so often.
If you are using CONNECT to analyze files that can be modified by an external process, the indexes are of course not modified by it and become outdated. Use the OPTIMIZE TABLE command to update them before using the tables based on them.
This means also that CONNECT is not designed to be used by centralized servers, which are mostly used for transactions and often must run a long time without human intervening.
Performance
Performances vary a great deal depending on the table type. For instance, ODBC tables are only
retrieved as fast as the other DBMS can do. If you have a lot of queries to execute, the best way to optimize your work can be sometime to translate the data from one type to another. Fortunately this is very simple with CONNECT. Fixed formats like FIX, BIN or VEC tables can be created from slower ones by commands such as:
Copy
CREATE TABLE fastable table_specs SELECT * FROM slowtable;
FIX
and
BIN
are often the better choice because the I/O functions are
done on blocks of
BLOCK_SIZE
rows.
VEC
tables can be very efficient for
tables having many columns only a few being used in each query. Furthermore,
for tables of reasonable size, the
MAPPED
option can very often speed up
many queries.
Create Table statement
Be aware of the two broad kinds of CONNECT tables:
Inward
They are table whose file name is not specified at create. An empty file are given a default name (tabname.tabtype) and are populated like for other engines. They do not require the FILE privilege and can be used for testing purpose.
Outward
They are all other CONNECT tables and access external data sources or files. They are the true useful tables but require the FILE privilege.
Drop Table statement
For outward tables, the
DROP TABLE
statement just removes the table definition but does not erase the table data. However, dropping an inward tables also erase the table data as well.
Alter Table statement
Be careful using the
ALTER TABLE
statement. Currently the data compatibility is not tested and the modified definition can become incompatible with the data. In particular, Alter modifies the table definition only but does not modify the table data. Consequently, the table type should not be modified this way, except to correct an incorrect definition. Also adding, dropping or modifying columns may be wrong because the default offset values (when not explicitly given by the FLAG option) may be wrong when recompiled with missing columns.
Safe use of ALTER is for indexing, as we have seen earlier, and to change options such as MAPPED or HUGE those do not impact the data format but just the way the data file is accessed. Modifying the BLOCK_SIZE option is all right with FIX, BIN, DBF, split VEC tables; however it is unsafe for VEC tables that are not split (only one data file) because at their creation the estimate size has been made a multiple of the block size. This can cause errors if this estimate is not a multiple of the new value of the block size.
In all cases, it is safer to drop and re-create the table (outward tables) or to make another one from the table that must be modified.
Update and Delete for File Tables
CONNECT can execute these commands using two different algorithms:
It can do it in place, directly modifying rows (update) or moving rows (delete) within the table file. This is a fast way to do it in particular when indexing is used.
It can do it using a temporary file to make the changes. This is required when updating variable record length tables and is more secure in all cases.
The choice between these algorithms depends on the session variable
connect_use_tempfile
.
This page is licensed: GPLv2
spinner
Previous
Using CONNECT - Exporting Data From MariaDB
Next
Using CONNECT - Importing File Data Into MariaDB Tables
Last updated
4 months ago
Was this helpful?
Performance
Create Table statement
Drop Table statement
Alter Table statement
Update and Delete for File Tables
Was this helpful?