Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-management/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration/docker-and-mariadb

MariaDB Containers | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Deployment
Starting & Stopping
Automated Deployment & Administration
Why to Automate MariaDB Deployments and Management
Comparison Between Automation Systems
Automating MariaDB Tasks with Events
Automating Upgrades with MariaDB.Org Downloads REST API
HashiCorp Vault and MariaDB
Orchestrator Overview
Ansible and MariaDB
Puppet and MariaDB
MariaDB Containers
Adding Plugins to the MariaDB Docker Official Image
Benefits of Managing MariaDB Containers with Orchestration Software
Container Backup and Restoration
Container Security
Creating a Custom Container Image
Deploy MariaDB Enterprise Server with Docker
MariaDB Enterprise Docker Registry for MariaDB Enterprise Server
Docker and AWS EC2
Docker and Google Cloud
Docker and Microsoft Azure
Docker Official Image Frequently Asked Questions
Installing and Using MariaDB via Docker
MariaDB Container Cheat Sheet
MariaDB Enterprise Server Docker Official Image Environment Variables
Setting Up a LAMP Stack with Docker Compose
Using Healthcheck
MariaDB Enterprise Container Image Configuration Reference
Kubernetes and MariaDB
Vagrant and MariaDB
Server Monitoring & Logs
Variables and Modes
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
MariaDB Containers
Discusses running MariaDB in Docker containers, covering the benefits of isolation and ease of deployment for development and testing environments.
Containers are an OCI standard format for software images and their specified time all bundled up into a single distributable time. They can be used for production, development or testing.
Docker Inc. run a
Docker Official Images
program to provide users with an essential base implementation of MariaDB in a container and to exemplify best practices of a container.
The containers are
available on Docker Hub
as
docker.io/library/mariadb
though many container runtime implementation will fill in the
docker.io/library
where the host/path isn't specified.
The containers are in a Open Container Initiative format that allows the containers to be interoperable with a number of container runtime implementations. Docker, or more fully Docker Engine, is just one of the many available runtimes.
Many people use MariaDB Docker Official Image containers in CI systems like GitHub Actions, though its possible to use these in production environments like kubernetes.
The MariaDB Server container images are available with a number of tags:
A full version, like 10.11.5
A major version like 10.11
The most recent stable GA version - latest
The most recent stable LTS version - lts
Versions that aren't stable will be suffixed with
-rc
, or
-alpha
to clearly show their release status, and enables
Renovatebot
and other that follow
semantic versioning
to follow updates.
For a consistent application between testing an production environment using the SHA hash of the image is recommended like
docker.io/library/mariadb@sha256:29fe5062baf36bae8ec68f21a3dce4f0372dadc185e687624f1252fc49d91c67
. There is a list of mapping and history of tags to SHA hash on the
Docker Library repository
.
Previous
Bolt Examples
Next
Adding Plugins to the MariaDB Docker Official Image
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Was this helpful?