Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/storage-engines/myrocks/myrocks-and-index-only-scans

MyRocks Index-Only Scans | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Storage Engines Overview
Choosing the Right Storage Engine
ARCHIVE
ARIA
BLACKHOLE
CONNECT
CSV
DuckDB
FederatedX
InnoDB
MEMORY
MERGE
Mroonga
MyISAM
MyRocks
About MyRocks for MariaDB
Building MyRocks in MariaDB
Differences Between MyRocks Variants
Getting Started with MyRocks
Loading Data Into MyRocks
MyRocks Bloom Filters
MyRocks CHECK TABLE
MyRocks Data Compression
MyRocks Group Commit with Binary log
MyRocks Index-Only Scans
MyRocks and Replication
MyRocks START TRANSACTION WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT
MyRocks Column Families
MyRocks Performance Troubleshooting
Optimizer Statistics in MyRocks
MyRocks Transactional Isolation
MyRocks Status Variables
MyRocks System Variables
OQGRAPH
PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA
SEQUENCE Storage Engine
S3 Storage Engine
SphinxSE
Spider
VIDEX Storage Engine
Converting Tables from MyISAM to InnoDB
Machine Learning with MindsDB
Legacy Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
MyRocks Index-Only Scans
MyRocks storage engine scans that only use indexes.
This article is about
MyRocks
and index-only scans on secondary indexes. It applies to MariaDB's MyRocks, Facebook's MyRocks, and other variants.
Secondary Keys Only
The primary key in MyRocks is always the clustered key, that is, the index record is THE table record and so it's not possible to do "index only" because there isn't anything that is not in the primary key's (Key,Value) pair.
Secondary keys may or may not support index-only scans, depending on the datatypes of the columns that the query is trying to read.
Background: Mem-Comparable Keys
MyRocks indexes store "mem-comparable keys" (that is, the key values are compared with
memcmp
). For some datatypes, it is easily possible to convert between the column value and its mem-comparable form, while for others the conversion is one-way.
For example, in case-insensitive collations capital and regular letters are considered identical, i.e. 'c' ='C'. For some datatypes, MyRocks stores some extra data which allows it to restore the original value back. (For the
latin1_general_ci
collation
and character 'c', for example, it will store one bit which says whether the original value was a small 'c' or a capital letter 'C'). This doesn't work for all datatypes, though.
Index-Only Support for Various Datatypes
Index-only scans are supported for numeric and date/time datatypes. For CHAR and VAR[CHAR], it depends on which collation is used, see below for details.
Index-only scans are currently not supported for less frequently used datatypes, like
BIT(n)
SET(...)
ENUM(...)
It is actually possible to add support for those, feel free to write a patch or at least make a case why a particular datatype is important
Index-Only Support for Various Collations
As far as Index-only support is concerned, MyRocks distinguishes three kinds of collations:
1. Binary (Reversible) Collations
These are
binary
,
latin1_bin
, and
utf8_bin
.
For these collations, it is possible to convert a value back from its mem-comparable form. Hence, one can restore the original value back from its index record, and index-only scans are supported.
2. Restorable Collations
These are collations where one can store some extra information which helps to restore the original value.
Criteria (from storage/rocksdb/rdb_datadic.cc, rdb_is_collation_supported()) are:
The charset should use 1-byte characters (so, unicode-based collations are not included)
strxfrm(1 byte) = {one 1-byte weight value always}
no binary sorting
PAD attribute
The examples are:
latin1_general_ci
,
latin1_general_cs
,
latin1_swedish_ci
, etc.
Index-only scans are supported for these collations.
3. All Other Collations
For these collations, there is no known way to restore the value from its mem-comparable form, and so index-only scans are not supported.
MyRocks needs to fetch the clustered PK record to get the field value.
Covering Secondary Key Lookups for VARCHARs
TODO: there is also this optimization:
303
f349c95848e92b5b27b44f0e57194100eb0997e7
document it.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
MyRocks Group Commit with Binary log
Next
MyRocks and Replication
Last updated
11 months ago
Was this helpful?
Secondary Keys Only
Background: Mem-Comparable Keys
Index-Only Support for Various Datatypes
Index-Only Support for Various Collations
1. Binary (Reversible) Collations
2. Restorable Collations
3. All Other Collations
Covering Secondary Key Lookups for VARCHARs
Was this helpful?