Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/security/encryption/data-at-rest-encryption/aria-encryption/aria-encryption-keys

Aria: Encryption Keys | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Security
Securing MariaDB
Encryption
TLS and Cryptography Libraries
Data-in-Transit Encryption
Data-at-Rest Encryption
Data-at-Rest Encryption (TDE) Fundamentals
Managing Binary Log Encryption
Aria Encryption
Aria: Encryption Overview
Aria: Enabling Encryption
Aria: Encryption Keys
Aria: Disabling Encryption
InnoDB Encryption
Key Management and Encryption Plugins
User Account Management
Authentication with Enterprise Server
Limiting Size of Created Disk Temporary Files and Tables
Security Vulnerabilities (CVE) Fixed in MariaDB
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Aria: Encryption Keys
Details how Aria manages encryption keys (using ID 1 for user tables and ID 2 for temporary tables) and notes limitations regarding key rotation and per-table key assignment.
As with other storage engines that support data-at-rest encryption, Aria relies on an
Encryption Key Management
plugin to handle its encryption keys. Where the support is available, Aria can use
multiple keys
.
Encryption Keys
MariaDB keeps track of each encryption key internally using a 32-bit integer, which serves as the key identifier. Unlike
InnoDB
, Aria does not support the
ENCRYPTION_KEY_ID
table option (for more information, see
MDEV-18049
), which allows the user to specify the encryption key to use. Instead, Aria defaults to specific encryption keys provided by the Encryption Key Management plugin.
When working with user-created tables, Aria encrypts them to disk using the ID 1 key.
When working with internal temporary tables written to disk, Aria encrypts them to disk using the ID 2 key, unless there is no ID 2 key, then it falls back on the ID 1 key.
Key Rotation
Some
key management and encryption plugins
allow you to automatically rotate and version your encryption keys. If a plugin support key rotation, and if it rotates the encryption keys, then InnoDB's
background encryption threads
can re-encrypt InnoDB pages that use the old key version with the new key version. However, Aria does
not
have a similar mechanism, which means that the tables remain encrypted with the older key version. For more information, see
MDEV-18971
.
In order for key rotation to work, both the backend key management service (KMS) and the corresponding
key management and encryption plugin
have to support key rotation. See
Encryption Key Management: Support for Key Rotation in Encryption Plugins
to determine which plugins currently support key rotation.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Aria: Enabling Encryption
Next
Aria: Disabling Encryption
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Encryption Keys
Key Rotation
Was this helpful?