Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/backup-and-restore/backup-and-restore-overview

Backup and Restore Overview | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Backup and Restore Overview
Forming a Backup Strategy
Backup Optimization
MariaDB Enterprise Backup
mariadb-backup
Point-In-Time Recovery (InnoDB Log Archiving)
Replication as a Backup Solution
Backup and Restore via dbForge Studio
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Backup and Restore Overview
Complete MariaDB backup and recovery guide. Complete resource for backup methods, mariabackup usage, scheduling, and restoration for production use.
This article briefly discusses the main ways to backup MariaDB. For detailed descriptions and syntax, see the individual pages. More detail is in the process of being added.
Logical vs Physical Backups
Logical backups consist of the SQL statements necessary to restore the data, such as
CREATE DATABASE
,
CREATE TABLE
and
INSERT
.
Physical backups are performed by copying the individual data files or directories.
The main differences are as follows:
logical backups are more flexible, as the data can be restored on other hardware configurations, MariaDB versions or even on another DBMS, while physical backups cannot be imported on significantly different hardware, a different DBMS, or potentially even a different MariaDB version.
logical backups can be performed at the level of database and table, while physical databases are the level of directories and files. In the
MyISAM
and
InnoDB
storage engines, each table has an equivalent set of files.
logical backups are larger in size than the equivalent physical backup.
logical backups takes more time to both backup and restore than the equivalent physical backup.
log files and configuration files are not part of a logical backup
Backup Tools
mariadb-backup
The mariadb-backup program is a physical online backup tool and a fork of Percona XtraBackup with added support for compression and data-at-rest encryption.
Storage Engines and Backup Types
MariaDB Backup creates a file-level backup of data from the MariaDB Server data directory. This backup includes temporal data, and the encrypted and unencrypted tablespaces of supported storage engines (e.g., InnoDB, MyRocks, Aria).
MariaDB Server implements:
Full backups, which contain all data in the database.
Incremental backups, which contain modifications since the last backup.
Partial backups, which contain a subset of the tables in the database.
Backup support is specific to storage engines. All supported storage engines enable full backup. The InnoDB storage engine additionally supports incremental backup.
Non-Blocking Backups
A feature of MariaDB Backup and MariaDB Server, non-blocking backups minimize workload impact during backups. When MariaDB Backup connects to MariaDB Server, staging operations are initiated to protect data during read.
Non-blocking backup functionality differs from historical backup functionality in the following ways:
MariaDB Backup includes optimizations to backup staging, including DDL statement tracking, which reduces lock-time during backups.
MariaDB Backup in MariaDB Community Server 10.4 and later will block writes, log tables, and statistics.
Older releases used
FLUSH TABLES WITH READ LOCK
, which closed open tables and only allowed tables to be reopened with a read lock during the duration of backups.
Understanding Recovery
Full backups produced using MariaDB Server are not initially point-in-time consistent, and an attempt to restore from a raw full backup will cause InnoDB to crash to protect the data. Incremental backups contain only the changes since the last backup and cannot be used standalone to perform a restore.
To restore from a backup, you first need to prepare the backup for point-in-time consistency using the
--prepare
command:
Running
--prepare
on a
full backup
synchronizes the tablespaces, ensuring they are point-in-time consistent.
Running
--prepare
on an
incremental backup
synchronizes the tablespaces and applies the updated data into the previous full backup.
Running
--prepare
on data used for a
partial restore
requires the
--export
option to create the necessary
.cfg
files.
Restore Requires Empty Data Directory
For MariaDB Backup to safely restore data from full and incremental backups, the data directory must be empty. When MariaDB Backup restores from a backup using
--copy-back
or
--move-back
, it copies or moves the backup files into the MariaDB Server data directory.
Creating the Backup User
When MariaDB Backup performs a backup operation, it connects to the running MariaDB Server to manage locks and backup staging that prevent the Server from writing to a file while being read. It is recommended that a dedicated user be created and authorized to perform backups:
While MariaDB Backup requires a user for backup operations, no user is required for restore operations since restores occur while MariaDB Server is not running.
mariadb-dump
mariadb-dump
(previously mysqldump) performs a logical backup. It is the most flexible way to perform a backup and restore, and a good choice when the data size is relatively small.
For large datasets, the backup file can be large, and the restore time lengthy.
mariadb-dump
dumps the data into SQL format (it can also dump into other formats, such as CSV or XML) which can then easily be imported into another database. The data can be imported into other versions of MariaDB, MySQL, or even another DBMS entirely, assuming there are no version or DBMS-specific statements in the dump.
mariadb-dump dumps triggers along with tables, as these are part of the table definition. However,
stored procedures
,
views
, and
events
are not, and need extra parameters to be recreated explicitly (for example,
--routines
and
--events
).
Procedures
and
functions
are however also part of the system tables (for example
mysql.proc
).
InnoDB Logical Backups
InnoDB uses the
buffer pool
, which stores data and indexes from its tables in memory. This buffer is very important for performance. If InnoDB data doesn't fit the memory, it is important that the buffer contains the most frequently accessed data. However, last accessed data is candidate for insertion into the buffer pool. If not properly configured, when a table scan happens, InnoDB may copy the whole contents of a table into the buffer pool. The problem with logical backups is that they always imply full table scans.
An easy way to avoid this is by increasing the value of the
innodb_old_blocks_time
system variable. It represents the number of milliseconds that must pass before a recently accessed page can be put into the "new" sublist in the buffer pool. Data which is accessed only once should remain in the "old" sublist. This means that they will soon be evicted from the buffer pool. Since during the backup process the "old" sublist is likely to store data that is not useful, one could also consider resizing it by changing the value of the
innodb_old_blocks_pct
system variable.
It is also possible to explicitly dump the buffer pool on disk before starting a logical backup, and restore it after the process. This will undo any negative change to the buffer pool which happens during the backup. To dump the buffer pool, the
innodb_buffer_pool_dump_now
system variable can be set to
ON
. To restore it, the
innodb_buffer_pool_load_now
system variable can be set to
ON
.
mariadb-dump
Examples
Backing up a single database
Restoring or loading the database
See the
mariadb-dump
page for detailed syntax and examples.
mariadb-hotcopy
mariadb-hotcopy
performs a physical backup, and works only for backing up
MyISAM
and
ARCHIVE
tables. It can only be run on the same machine as the location of the database directories.
mariadb-hotcopy
Examples
Percona XtraBackup
Percona XtraBackup is
not supported
in MariaDB.
mariadb-backup
is the recommended backup method to use instead of Percona XtraBackup. See
Percona XtraBackup Overview: Compatibility with MariaDB
for more information.
Percona XtraBackup
is a tool for performing fast, hot backups. It was designed specifically for
XtraDB/InnoDB
databases, but can be used with any storage engine (although not with
encryption
and
compression
). It is not included with MariaDB.
Filesystem Snapshots
Some filesystems, like Veritas, support snapshots. During the snapshot, the table must be locked. The proper steps to obtain a snapshot are:
From the
mariadb
client, execute
FLUSH TABLES WITH READ LOCK
. The client must remain open.
From a shell, execute
mount vxfs snapshot
The client can execute
UNLOCK TABLES
.
Copy the snapshot files.
From a shell, unmount the snapshot with
umount snapshot
.
LVM
Widely-used physical backup method, using a Perl script as a wrapper.
LVM snapshots are not a standalone DBMS backup solution.
LVM operates at the block level, meaning it is "database-blind." It captures a crash-consistent state, identical to a sudden power failure, ignoring data cached in RAM. Without flushing buffers and locking tables, snapshots risk torn pages and permanent corruption.
Furthermore, the Copy-on-Write (CoW) mechanism significantly degrades production performance. Snapshots also exist on the same physical disks; they are not true backups and offer no protection against hardware failure. Always use application-aware tools (like
mariadb-backup
) to ensure data integrity.
dbForge Studio for MySQL
Besides the system utilities, it is possible to use third-party GUI tools to perform backup and restore operations. In this context, it is worth mentioning dbForge Studio for MySQL, a feature-rich database IDE that is fully compatible with MariaDB and delivers extensive backup functionality.
The backup and restore module of the Studio allows precise
configuration and management of full and partial backups
up to particular database objects. The feature of scheduling regular backups offers specific settings to handle errors and keep a log of them. Additionally, settings and configurations can be saved for later reuse.
These operations are wizard-aided allowing users to set up all tasks in a visual mode.
See Also
Streaming MariaDB backups in the cloud
• blog post • 2015 • 5 minutes read
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Backup & Restore
Next
Forming a Backup Strategy
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?
Logical vs Physical Backups
Backup Tools
mariadb-backup
mariadb-dump
mariadb-hotcopy
Percona XtraBackup
Filesystem Snapshots
LVM
dbForge Studio for MySQL
See Also
Was this helpful?
Copy
CREATE USER 'mariabackup'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'mbu_passwd';
GRANT RELOAD, PROCESS, LOCK TABLES, BINLOG MONITOR
ON * TO 'mariabackup'@'localhost';
Copy
mariadb-dump db_name > backup-file.sql
Copy
mariadb db_name < backup-file.sql
Copy
mariadb-hotcopy db_name [/path/to/new_directory]
mariadb-hotcopy db_name_1 ... db_name_n /path/to/new_directory