Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/security/encryption/data-in-transit-encryption/using-tlsv13

Using TLSv1.3 | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Security
Securing MariaDB
Encryption
TLS and Cryptography Libraries
Data-in-Transit Encryption
Secure Connections Overview
Securing Connections for Client and Server
Zero-Configuration SSL
Replication with Secure Connections
Enabling TLS on MariaDB Server
Certificate Creation with OpenSSL
SSL/TLS System Variables
Using TLSv1.3
Post-Quantum Cryptography in MariaDB TLS
Data-at-Rest Encryption
User Account Management
Authentication with Enterprise Server
Limiting Size of Created Disk Temporary Files and Tables
Security Vulnerabilities (CVE) Fixed in MariaDB
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Using TLSv1.3
Information about TLSv1.3 support in MariaDB (available with OpenSSL 1.1.1+), noting that the ssl_cipher variable does not affect TLSv1.3 cipher suites.
OpenSSL 1.1.1 introduced support for TLSv1.3. TLSv1.3 is a major rewrite of the TLS protocol. (Some even argued it should've been called TLSv2.0.) Among other things,
it introduces a new set of cipher suites that only work with TLSv1.3,
and TLSv1.3 does not support cipher suites from previous TLS protocol versions.
OpenSSL 1.1.1 is primarily (if not exclusively) supported by Red Hat 8.
This incompatible change had a non-obvious consequence. If you specified particular cipher suites to disable old and obsolete TLS protocol version, you might have inadvertently prevented TLSv1.3 from working, if the TLSv1.3 cipher suites were not added to their cipher list. After upgrading to OpenSSL 1.1.1, this might give the impression that you are using TLSv1.3, when their existing cipher suite configuration might prevent it.
To avoid this problem, OpenSSL developers decided that TLSv1.3 cipher suites should not be affected by the normal cipher-selecting API. This means that the
ssl_cipher
system variable had no effect on the TLSv1.3 cipher suites. This has been fixed in MariaDB, though – you can use the
ssl_cipher
variable just like before that change.
You cannot specify both TLSv1.2 and TLSv1.3 at the same time when MariaDB is built against OpenSSL 1.1.1.
See this
OpenSSL blog post
and
GitHub issue
for more information.
See Also
Secure Connections Overview
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
SSL/TLS System Variables
Next
Post-Quantum Cryptography in MariaDB TLS
Last updated
4 months ago
Was this helpful?
Was this helpful?