Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/storage-engines/connect/using-connect/using-connect-indexing

Using CONNECT - Indexing | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Storage Engines Overview
Choosing the Right Storage Engine
ARCHIVE
ARIA
BLACKHOLE
CONNECT
Introduction to the CONNECT Engine
Using CONNECT
Using CONNECT - Condition Pushdown
Using CONNECT - Exporting Data From MariaDB
Using CONNECT - General Information
Using CONNECT - Importing File Data Into MariaDB Tables
Using CONNECT - Indexing
Using CONNECT - Partitioning and Sharding
Using CONNECT - Virtual and Special Columns
Installing CONNECT
CONNECT Create Table Options
CONNECT Data Types
CONNECT Table Types
CONNECT Security
CONNECT System Variables
Adding the REST Feature as a Library Called by an OEM Table
Compiling JSON UDFs in a Separate Library
Making the GetRest Library
OEM Table Example
Current Status of the CONNECT Handler
JSON Sample Files
CSV
DuckDB
FederatedX
InnoDB
MEMORY
MERGE
Mroonga
MyISAM
MyRocks
OQGRAPH
PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA
SEQUENCE Storage Engine
S3 Storage Engine
SphinxSE
Spider
VIDEX Storage Engine
Converting Tables from MyISAM to InnoDB
Machine Learning with MindsDB
Legacy Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Using CONNECT - Indexing
The CONNECT storage engine.
This storage engine has been deprecated.
Indexing
is one of the main ways to optimize queries. Key columns, in particular when they are used to join tables, should be indexed. But what should be done for columns that have only few distinct values? If they are randomly placed in the table they should not be indexed because reading many
rows in random order can be slower than reading the entire table sequentially. However, if the values are sorted or clustered, indexing can be acceptable because
CONNECT
indexes store the values in the order they appear into the table and this will make retrieving them almost as fast as reading them
sequentially.
CONNECT provides four indexing types:
Standard Indexing
Block Indexing
Remote Indexing
Dynamic Indexing
Standard Indexing
CONNECT standard indexes are created and used as the ones of other storage engines although they have a specific internal format. The CONNECT handler supports the use of standard indexes for most of the file based table types.
You can define them in the
CREATE TABLE
statement, or either using the
CREATE INDEX
statement or the
ALTER TABLE
statement. In all cases, the index files are automatically made. They can be dropped either using the
DROP INDEX
statement or the
ALTER TABLE
statement, and this erases the index files.
Indexes are automatically reconstructed when the table is created, modified by
INSERT
,
UPDATE
or
DELETE
statements, or when the
SEPINDEX
option is changed. If you have a lot of changes to do on a table at one moment, you can use table locking to prevent indexes to be reconstructed after each statement. The indexes are reconstructed when unlocking the table. For instance:
Copy
LOCK
TABLE
t1 WRITE;
INSERT INTO
t1
VALUES
(...);
INSERT INTO
t1
VALUES
(...);
...
UNLOCK
TABLES;
If a table was modified by an external application that does not handle indexing, the indexes must be
reconstructed to prevent returning false or incomplete results. To do this, use the
OPTIMIZE TABLE
command.
For outward tables, index files are not erased when dropping the table. This is the same as for the data file and preserves the possibility of several users using the same data file via different tables.
Unlike other storage engines, CONNECT constructs the indexes as files that are named by default from the data file name, not from the table name, and located in the data file directory. Depending on the
SEPINDEX
table option, indexes are saved in a unique file or in separate files (if
SEPINDEX
is true). For instance, if indexes are in separate files, the primary index of the
table_dept.dat_
of type
DOS
is a file named
dept_PRIMARY.dnx
. This makes possible to define several tables on the same data file, with eventual different options such as mapped or not mapped, and to share the index files as well.
If the index file should have a different name, for instance because several tables are created on the same data file with different indexes, specify the base index file name with the
XFILE_NAME
option.
Note1:
Indexed columns must be declared
NOT NULL
; CONNECT doesn't support indexes containing null values.
Note 2:
MRR is used by standard indexing if it is enabled.
Note 3:
Prefix indexing is not supported. If specified, the CONNECT engine ignores the prefix and builds a whole index.
Handling index errors
The way CONNECT handles indexing is very specific. All table modifications are done regardless of indexing. Only after a table has been modified, or when an
OPTIMIZE TABLE
command is sent are the indexes made. If an error occurs, the corresponding index is not made. However, CONNECT being a non-transactional engine, it is unable to roll back the changes made to the table. The main causes of indexing errors are:
Trying to index a nullable column. In this case, you can alter the table to declare the column as not nullable or, if the column is nullable indeed, make it not indexed.
Entering duplicate values in a column indexed by a unique index. In this case, if the index was wrongly declared as unique, alter is declaration to reflect this. If the column should really contain unique values, you must manually remove or update the duplicate values.
In both cases, after correcting the error, remake the indexes with the
OPTIMIZE TABLE
command.
Index file mapping
To accelerate the indexing process, CONNECT makes an index structure in memory from the index
file. This can be done by reading the index file or using it as if it was in memory by “file mapping”. On
enabled versions, file mapping is used according to the boolean
connect_indx_map
system variable. Set it to 0 (file read) or 1 (file mapping).
Block Indexing
To accelerate input/output, CONNECT uses when possible a read/write mode by blocks of n rows, n
being the value given in the BLOCK _ SIZE option of the Create Table, or a default value depending on
the table type. This is automatic for fixed files (
FIX
,
BIN
,
DBF
or
VEC
), but must be specified for
variable files (
DOS
,
CSV
or
FMT
).
For blocked tables, further optimization can be achieved if the data values for some columns are
“clustered” meaning that they are not evenly scattered in the table but grouped in some consecutive
rows. Block indexing permits to skip blocks in which no rows fulfill a conditional predicate without
having even to read the block. This is true in particular for sorted columns.
You indicate this when creating the table by using the DISTRIB =d column option. The enum value d can
be
scattered
,
clustered
, or
sorted
. In general only one column can be sorted. Block indexing is used
only for clustered and sorted columns.
Difference between standard indexing and block indexing
Block indexing is internally handled by CONNECT while reading sequentially a table data. This
means in particular that when standard indexing is used on a table, block indexing is not used.
In a query, only one standard index can be used. However, block indexing can combine the
restrictions coming from a where clause implying several clustered/sorted columns.
The block index files are faster to make and much smaller than standard index files.
Notes for this Release:
On all operations that create or modify a table, CONNECT automatically calculates or recalculates
and saves the mini/maxi or bitmap values for each block, enabling it to skip block containing no
acceptable values. In the case where the optimize file does not correspond anymore to the table,
because it has been accidentally destroyed, or because some column definitions have been altered,
you can use the
OPTIMIZE TABLE
command to reconstruct the optimization file.
Sorted column special processing is currently restricted to ascending sort. Column sorted in
descending order must be flagged as clustered. Improper sorting is not checked in Update or Insert
operations but is flagged when optimizing the table.
Block indexing can be done in two ways. Keeping the min/max values existing for each block, or
keeping a bitmap allowing knowing what column distinct values are met in each blocks. This
second ways often gives a better optimization, except for sorted columns for which both are
equivalent. The bitmap approach can be done only on columns having not too many distinct
values. This is estimated by the
MAX_DIST
option value associated to the column when creating the
table. Bitmap block indexing are used if this number is not greater than the
MAXBMP
setting for
the database.
CONNECT cannot perform block indexing on case insensitive character columns. To force block
indexing on a character column, specify its charset as not case insensitive, for instance as binary.
However this will also apply to all other clauses, this column being now case sensitive.
Remote Indexing
Remote indexing is specific to the
MYSQL
table type. It is equivalent to what the
FEDERATED
storage does. A MYSQL table does not support indexes per se. Because access to the table is handled remotely, it is the remote table that supports the indexes. What the MYSQL table does is just to add a WHERE clause to the
SELECT
command sent to the remote server allowing the remote server to use indexing when applicable.
Note, however, that because CONNECT adds when possible all or part of the where clause of the
original query, this happens often even if the remote indexed column is not declared locally indexed.
The only, but very important, case a column should be locally declared indexed is when it is used to
join tables. Otherwise, the required where clause would not be added to the sent
SELECT
query.
See
Indexing of MYSQL tables
for more.
Dynamic Indexing
An indexed created as “dynamic” is a standard index which, in some cases, can be reconstructed for a specific query. This happens in particular for some queries where two tables are joined by an indexed key column. If the “from” table is big and the “to” big table reduced in size because of a where clause, it can be worthwhile to reconstruct the index on this reduced table.
Because of the time added by reconstructing the index, this is valuable only if the time gained by
reducing the index size if more than this reconstruction time. This is why this should not be done if the “from” table is small because there will not be enough row joining to compensate for the additional time.
Otherwise, the gain of using a dynamic index is:
Indexing time is a little faster if the index is smaller.
The join process will return only the rows fulfilling the where clause.
Because the table is read sequentially when reconstructing the index there no need for MRR.
Constructing the index can be faster if the table is reduced by block indexing.
While constructing the index, CONNECT also stores in memory the values of other used columns.
This last point is particularly important. It means that after the index is reconstructed, the join is done
on a temporary memory table.
Unfortunately, storage engines being called independently by MariaDB for each table, CONNECT has
no global information to decide when it is good to use dynamic indexing. This is why you should use it
only on cases where you see that some important join queries take a very long time and only on
columns used for joining the table. How to declare an index to be dynamic is by using the Boolean
DYNAM index option. For instance, the query:
Such a query joining the diag table to the patients table may last a very long time if the tables are big.
To declare the primary key on the pnb column of the patients table to be dynamic:
Note 1: The comment is not mandatory here but useful to see that the index is dynamic if you use the
SHOW INDEX
command.
Note 2: There is currently no way to just change the DYNAM option without dropping and adding the
index. This is unfortunate because it takes time.
Virtual Indexing
It applies only to the virtual tables of type
VIR
and must be made on a column specifying
SPECIAL=ROWID
or
SPECIAL=ROWNUM
.
This page is licensed: GPLv2
spinner
Previous
Using CONNECT - Importing File Data Into MariaDB Tables
Next
Using CONNECT - Partitioning and Sharding
Last updated
4 months ago
Was this helpful?
Standard Indexing
Handling index errors
Index file mapping
Block Indexing
Difference between standard indexing and block indexing
Notes for this Release:
Remote Indexing
Dynamic Indexing
Virtual Indexing
Was this helpful?
Copy
SELECT d.diag, COUNT(*) cnt FROM diag d, patients p WHERE d.pnb =
p.pnb AND ageyears < 17 AND county = 30 AND drg <> 11 AND d.diag
BETWEEN 4296 AND 9434 GROUP BY d.diag ORDER BY cnt DESC;
Copy
ALTER TABLE patients DROP PRIMARY KEY;
ALTER TABLE patients ADD PRIMARY KEY (pnb) COMMENT 'DYNAMIC' dynam=1;