Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/storage-engines/legacy-storage-engines/cassandra/handling-joins-with-cassandra

Handling Joins With Cassandra | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Storage Engines Overview
Choosing the Right Storage Engine
ARCHIVE
ARIA
BLACKHOLE
CONNECT
CSV
DuckDB
FederatedX
InnoDB
MEMORY
MERGE
Mroonga
MyISAM
MyRocks
OQGRAPH
PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA
SEQUENCE Storage Engine
S3 Storage Engine
SphinxSE
Spider
VIDEX Storage Engine
Converting Tables from MyISAM to InnoDB
Machine Learning with MindsDB
Legacy Storage Engines
FEDERATED Storage Engine
Cassandra Storage Engine
Building Cassandra Storage Engine for Packaging
Building Cassandra Storage Engine
Cassandra Status Variables
Cassandra Storage Engine Future Plans
Cassandra Storage Engine Issues
Cassandra Storage Engine Overview
Cassandra Storage Engine Use Example
Cassandra System Variables
Handling Joins With Cassandra
Virtual Machine to Test the Cassandra Storage Engine
TokuDB
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Handling Joins With Cassandra
Legacy Cassandra storage engine description. Cassandra was removed from MariaDB in MariaDB 10.6.
The Cassandra storage engine was removed in MariaDB 10.6.
Joins with data stored in a Cassandra database are only possible on the MariaDB side. That is, if we want to compute a join between two tables, we will:
Read the relevant data for the first table.
Based on data we got in #1, read the matching records from the second table.
Either of the tables can be an InnoDB table, or a Cassandra table. In case the second table is a Cassandra table, the Cassandra Storage Engine allows to read matching records in an efficient way.
Some general info
All this is targeted at running joins which touch small fraction of the tables. The expected typical use-case looks like this:
The primary data is stored in MariaDB (ie. in InnoDB)
There is also some extra data stored in Cassandra (e.g. hit counters)
The user accesses data in MariaDB (think of a website and a query like:
Copy
SELECT * FROM user_accounts WHERE username='joe')
Cassandra SE allows to grab some Cassandra data, as well. One can write things like this:
Copy
SELECT
user_accounts.*,
cassandra_table.some_more_fields
FROM
user_accounts, cassandra_data
WHERE
user_accounts.username='joe' AND
user_accounts.user_id= cassandra_table.user_id
which is much easier to do than to use Thrift API.
If the user wants to run huge joins that touch a big fraction of table's data, for example:
"What are top 10 countries that my website had visitors from in the last month"?
or
"Go through last month's orders and give me top 10 selling items"
then Cassandra Storage engine is not a good answer. Queries like this are answered in two ways:
Design their schema in Cassandra in such a way that allows to get this data in one small select. No kidding. This is what Cassandra is targeted at, they explicitly recommend that Cassandra schema design starts with the queries.
If the query doesn't match Cassandra's schema, they need to run Hive (or Pig), which have some kind of distributed join support. Hive/Pig compile queries to Map/reduce job which are ran across the whole cluster, so they will certainly beat Cassandra Storage Engine which runs on one mysqld node (you can have multiple mysqld nodes of course, but they will not cooperate with one
another).
It is possible to run Hive/Pig on Cassandra.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Cassandra System Variables
Next
Virtual Machine to Test the Cassandra Storage Engine
Last updated
6 months ago
Was this helpful?
Was this helpful?