Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/mariadb-quickstart-guides/database-applications/introduction-and-background

Introduction & Background | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Installing MariaDB Server Guide
Adding & Changing Data Guide
Essential Queries Guide
Basics Guide
Altering Tables Guide
Connecting to MariaDB Guide
Troubleshooting Connection Issues Guide
Doing Time Guide
Importing Data Guide
Essentials of an Index Guide
Getting Started with Indexes Guide
Joining Tables with JOIN Clauses
Advanced Joins
Configuring MariaDB for Remote Client Access Guide
Getting Data Guide
Basic SQL Statements Guide
Basic SQL Debugging Guide
MariaDB String Functions Guide
Restoring Data from Dump Files Guide
Changing Times in MariaDB
System & Status Variables Guide
Making Backups with mariadb-dump Guide
A MariaDB Primer Guide
Creating & Using Views Guide
Database Applications
Introduction & Background
Database Design
Application Code
Canary Testing
Server Usage
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Introduction & Background
This section provides an introduction to developing database-backed applications with MariaDB, discussing maintenance, upgrades, and separation of concerns.
Introduction
When designing database-based applications, one aspect that might always be considered at first is how you are supposed to maintain these applications; here, we mean maintenance in the sense of application code and database schemas being upgraded and how this can be done with minimum downtime and effort.
This document aims to look at some important aspects of this, from database schema design to application code. Most of these are not strict rules, but rather aspects to consider when working with applications. The document does not cover general application code aspects, only the aspects that deal with the database part of applications.
Background to Relational Database Applications
Relational database systems, more or less all of them using the SQL query language, have been around since the early 1980s, and things have changed a lot over that time. One aspect that applications using relational databases introduced was the separation of the application, dealing with logic, presentation, user interaction and similar aspects on one hand and the database structure and design on the other.
With relational databases came the relational database modelling and eventually the different normal forms of database design. Much of this has relaxed these days, but there are still things to consider here.
The introduction of logic in the database layer, such as stored procedures, triggers and other aspects, is somewhat blurring the line between code and data, but the general rules still hold.
Previous
Database Applications
Next
Database Design
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?
Introduction
Background to Relational Database Applications
Was this helpful?