Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-management/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration/ansible-and-mariadb/deploying-docker-containers-with-ansible

Deploying Docker Containers with Ansible | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Deployment
Starting & Stopping
Automated Deployment & Administration
Why to Automate MariaDB Deployments and Management
Comparison Between Automation Systems
Automating MariaDB Tasks with Events
Automating Upgrades with MariaDB.Org Downloads REST API
HashiCorp Vault and MariaDB
Orchestrator Overview
Ansible and MariaDB
Ansible Overview for MariaDB Users
Deploying Docker Containers with Ansible
Deploying to Remote Servers with Ansible
Existing Ansible Modules and Roles for MariaDB
Installing MariaDB .deb Files with Ansible
Managing Secrets in Ansible
Running mariadb-tzinfo-to-sql with Ansible
Puppet and MariaDB
MariaDB Containers
Kubernetes and MariaDB
Vagrant and MariaDB
Server Monitoring & Logs
Variables and Modes
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Deploying Docker Containers with Ansible
Explains how to use Ansible's Docker modules to automate the deployment and configuration of MariaDB containers, serving as an alternative to Docker Compose.
Ansible can be used to manage Docker container upgrades and configuration changes. Docker has native ways to do this, namely
Dockerfiles
and
Docker Compose
. But sometimes there are reasons to start basic containers from an image and then manage configuration with Ansible or similar software. See
Benefits of Managing Docker Containers with Automation Software
.
In this page we'll discuss how to use Ansible to manage Docker containers.
How to Deploy a Container with Ansible
Ansible has modules to manage the Docker server, Docker containers, and Docker Compose. These modules are maintained by the community.
A dynamic inventory plugin for Docker exists. It retrieves the list of existing containers from Docker.
Docker modules and the Docker inventory plugin communicate with Docker using its API. The connection to the API can use a TSL connection and supports key authenticity verification.
To communicate with Docker API, Ansible needs a proper Python module installed on the Ansible node (
docker
or
docker-py
).
Several roles exist to deploy Docker and configure it. They can be found in Ansible Galaxy.
References
Further information can be found in Ansible documentation.
Docker Guide
.
docker_container
module.
Content initially contributed by
Vettabase Ltd
.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Ansible Overview for MariaDB Users
Next
Deploying to Remote Servers with Ansible
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
How to Deploy a Container with Ansible
References
Was this helpful?