Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-management/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration/vagrant-and-mariadb/vagrant-security-concerns

Vagrant Security | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Deployment
Starting & Stopping
Automated Deployment & Administration
Why to Automate MariaDB Deployments and Management
Comparison Between Automation Systems
Automating MariaDB Tasks with Events
Automating Upgrades with MariaDB.Org Downloads REST API
HashiCorp Vault and MariaDB
Orchestrator Overview
Ansible and MariaDB
Puppet and MariaDB
MariaDB Containers
Kubernetes and MariaDB
Vagrant and MariaDB
Creating a Vagrantfile
Vagrant Overview for MariaDB Users
Vagrant Security
Server Monitoring & Logs
Variables and Modes
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Vagrant Security
Discusses security considerations when using Vagrant with MariaDB, such as default insecure keys, port forwarding risks, and ensuring production-grade settings are not used in dev boxes.
Databases typically contain information to which access should be restricted. For this reason, it's worth discussing some security concerns that Vagrant users should be aware of.
Access to the Vagrant Machine
By default, Vagrant machines are only accessible from the localhost. SSH access uses randomly generated key pairs, and therefore it is secure.
The password for
root
and
vagrant
is "vagrant" by default. Consider changing it.
Synced Folders
By default, the project folder in the host system is shared with the machine, which sees it as
/vagrant
. This means that whoever has access to the project folder also has read and write access to the synced folder. If this is a problem, make sure to properly restrict the access to the synced folder.
If we need to exchange files between the host system and the Vagrant machine, it is not advisable to disable the synced folder. This is because the only alternative is to use the
file
provider, which works by copying files to the machine via ssh. The problem is that the default ssh user does not have permissions to write to any directory by default, and changing this would be less secure than using a synced folder.
When a machine is provisioned, it should read the needed files from the synced folder or copy them to other places. Files in the synced folder should not be accessed by the Vagrant machine during its normal activities. For example, it is fine to load a dump from the synced folder during provisioning; and it is fine to copy configuration files from the synced folder to directories in
/etc
during provisioning. But it is a bad practice to let MariaDB use table files located in the synced folder.
Reporting Security Bugs
Note that security bugs are not reported as normal bugs. Information about security bugs are not public. See
Security at HashiCorp
for details.
Content initially contributed by
Vettabase Ltd
.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Vagrant Overview for MariaDB Users
Next
Server Monitoring & Logs
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Access to the Vagrant Machine
Synced Folders
Reporting Security Bugs
Was this helpful?