Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/storage-engines/innodb/mariadb-enterprise-server-innodb-operations/configure-the-innodb-purge-threads

Configure the InnoDB Purge Threads | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Storage Engines Overview
Choosing the Right Storage Engine
ARCHIVE
ARIA
BLACKHOLE
CONNECT
CSV
DuckDB
FederatedX
InnoDB
InnoDB Introduction
InnoDB File Format
InnoDB Limitations
AUTO_INCREMENT Handling in InnoDB
Binary Log Group Commit and InnoDB Flushing Performance
InnoDB Asynchronous I/O
InnoDB Buffer Pool
InnoDB Change Buffering
InnoDB Data Scrubbing
InnoDB Doublewrite Buffer
InnoDB Flush Method
InnoDB Lock Modes
InnoDB Log Archiving
InnoDB Monitors
InnoDB Page Compression
InnoDB Page Flushing
InnoDB Purge
InnoDB Undo Log
InnoDB Redo Log
InnoDB Strict Mode
InnoDB System Variables
InnoDB Versions
InnoDB Architecture for MariaDB Enterprise Server
InnoDB Online DDL
InnoDB Row Formats
InnoDB Tablespaces
InnoDB Troubleshooting
MariaDB Enterprise Server InnoDB Operations
Configure the InnoDB Buffer Pool
Configure the InnoDB I/O Threads
Configure the InnoDB Purge Threads
Configure the InnoDB Redo Log
Configure the InnoDB Undo Log
Schema Changes
InnoDB - Unmaintained
MEMORY
MERGE
Mroonga
MyISAM
MyRocks
OQGRAPH
PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA
SEQUENCE Storage Engine
S3 Storage Engine
SphinxSE
Spider
VIDEX Storage Engine
Converting Tables from MyISAM to InnoDB
Machine Learning with MindsDB
Legacy Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Configure the InnoDB Purge Threads
Learn how to adjust the number of background purge threads to efficiently manage undo logs and prevent history list growth.
Overview
In MariaDB Enterprise Server, the InnoDB storage engine uses Purge Threads to perform garbage collection in the background. The Purge Threads are related to multi-version concurrency control (MVCC).
The Purge Threads perform garbage collection of various items:
The Purge Threads perform garbage collection of the
InnoDB Undo Log
. When a row is updated in the clustered index, InnoDB updates the values in the clustered index, and the old row version is added to the Undo Log. The Purge Threads scan the Undo Log for row versions that are not needed by open transactions and permanently delete them.
The Purge Threads perform garbage collection of index records. When an indexed column is updated, InnoDB creates a new index record for the updated value in each affected index, and the old index records are delete-marked. When the primary key column is updated, InnoDB creates a new index record for the updated value in every index, and each old index record is delete-marked. The Purge Threads scan for delete-marked index records and permanently delete them.
The Purge Threads perform garbage collection of freed overflow pages.
BLOB
,
CHAR
,
TEXT
,
VARCHAR
,
VARBINARY
, and related types are sometimes stored on overflow pages. When the value on the overflow page is deleted or updated, the overflow page is no longer needed. The Purge Threads delete these freed overflow pages.
For additional information, see "
InnoDB Purge Threads
".
This page describes how to configure the InnoDB Purge Threads.
Configure the Number of InnoDB Purge Threads
The number of the InnoDB Purge Threads is configurable. If your server deletes or updates rows at a very high frequency, then you may need to increase the number of purge threads.
The method to configure the number of Purge Threads depends on the server version and whether a server restart are performed:
Product Versions
Server Restart?
Method
ES 10.5 and Later
No
Configure maximum number of asynchronous I/O requests with SET GLOBAL
Any ES Any CS
Yes.
Configure number of I/O threads in configuration file
Configure the Number of InnoDB Purge Threads with SET GLOBAL
This feature is available from MariaDB Enterprise Server 10.5.
The number of InnoDB purge threads can be changed dynamically by setting the
innodb_purge_threads
system variable using the
SET GLOBAL
statement. The
SET GLOBAL
statement requires the SUPER privilege.
To ensure that the change survives server restarts, the
innodb_purge_threads
system variable should also be set in a configuration file.
To configure the number of InnoDB Purge threads with the
SET GLOBAL
statement, use the following procedure:
Connect to the server using
MariaDB Client
as the
root@localhost
user account or another user account with the SUPER privilege:
Set the
innodb_purge_threads
system variable to the new size using the
SET GLOBAL
statement.
For example:
Choose a configuration file for custom changes to system variables and options.
It is not recommended to make custom changes to Enterprise Server's default configuration files, because your custom changes can be overwritten by other default configuration files that are loaded after.
Ensure that your custom changes are read last by creating a custom configuration file in one of the included directories. Configuration files in included directories are read in alphabetical order. Ensure that your custom configuration file is read last by using the
z-
prefix in the file name.
Some example configuration file paths for different distributions are shown in the following table:
Distributions
Example configuration file path
CentOS RHEL Rocky Linux SLES
/etc/my.cnf.d/z-custom-mariadb.cnf
Debian Ubuntu
/etc/mysql/mariadb.conf.d/z-custom-mariadb.cnf
Set the
innodb_purge_threads
system variable in the configuration file.
It needs to be set in a group that are read by MariaDB Server, such as [mariadb] or [server].
For example:
Configure the Number of InnoDB Purge Threads in a Configuration File
The number of InnoDB Purge Threads can be configured by setting the
innodb_purge_threads
system variable in a configuration file.
To configure the number of
innodb_purge_threads
in a configuration file, use the following procedure:
Choose a configuration file for custom changes to system variables and options.
It is not recommended to make custom changes to Enterprise Server's default configuration files, because your custom changes can be overwritten by other default configuration files that are loaded after.
Ensure that your custom changes are read last by creating a custom configuration file in one of the included directories. Configuration files in included directories are read in alphabetical order. Ensure that your custom configuration file is read last by using the
z-
prefix in the file name.
Some example configuration file paths for different distributions are shown in the following table:
Distributions
Example configuration file path
CentOS RHEL Rocky Linux SLES
/etc/my.cnf.d/z-custom-mariadb.cnf
Debian Ubuntu
/etc/mysql/mariadb.conf.d/z-custom-mariadb.cnf
Set the innodb_purge_threads system variable in the configuration file.
It needs to be set in a group that are read by MariaDB Server, such as
[mariadb]
or
[server]
.
For example:
Restart the server:
The server can use the configuration change without a restart if you use
SET GLOBAL
.
This page is: Copyright © 2025 MariaDB. All rights reserved.
spinner
Previous
Configure the InnoDB I/O Threads
Next
Configure the InnoDB Redo Log
Last updated
6 months ago
Was this helpful?
Overview
Configure the Number of InnoDB Purge Threads
Configure the Number of InnoDB Purge Threads with SET GLOBAL
Configure the Number of InnoDB Purge Threads in a Configuration File
Was this helpful?
Copy
$ mariadb --user=root
Copy
SET GLOBAL innodb_purge_threads=8;
Copy
[mariadb]
...
innodb_purge_threads=8
Copy
[mariadb]
...
innodb_purge_threads=8
Copy
$ sudo systemctl restart mariadb