Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-usage/backup-and-restore/mariadb-backup/restoring-individual-tables-and-partitions-with-mariadb-backup

Restoring Individual Tables and Partitions (mariadb-backup) | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Basics
Connecting
Data Handling
Backup & Restore
Backup and Restore Overview
Forming a Backup Strategy
Backup Optimization
MariaDB Enterprise Backup
mariadb-backup
mariadb-backup Overview
mariadb-backup Options
Full Backup and Restore (mariadb-backup)
Incremental Backup and Restore (mariadb-backup)
Partial Backup and Restore (mariadb-backup)
Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR, mariadb-backup)
Restoring Individual Databases From a Full Backup (mariadb-backup)
Restoring Individual Tables and Partitions (mariadb-backup)
Setting up a Replica (mariadb-backup)
Files Backed Up by mariadb-backup
Files Created by mariadb-backup
Using Encryption and Compression Tools With mariadb-backup
Encrypted Files Backup (mariadb-backup)
How mariadb-backup Works
mariadb-backup and BACKUP STAGE
mariadb-backup SST Method
Manual SST of Galera Cluster Node With mariadb-backup
Point-In-Time Recovery (InnoDB Log Archiving)
Replication as a Backup Solution
Backup and Restore via dbForge Studio
Tables
Partitioning Tables
Stored Routines
Storage Engines
Triggers & Events
User-Defined Functions
Views
Server Management
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Restoring Individual Tables and Partitions (mariadb-backup)
Restore specific tables from a backup. Learn the process of importing individual .ibd files to recover specific tables without restoring the whole database.
mariadb-backup was previously called mariabackup.
When using
mariadb-backup
, you don't necessarily need to restore every table and/or partition that was backed up. Even if you're starting from a full backup, it is certainly possible to restore only certain tables and/or partitions from the backup, as long as the table or partition involved is in an
InnoDB file-per-table tablespace
. This page documents how to restore individual tables and partitions.
For a complete list of
mariadb-backup
options,
see this page
.
For a detailed description of
mariadb-backup
functionality,
see this page
.
Preparing the Backup
Before you can restore from a backup, you first need to
prepare
it to make the data files consistent. You can do so with the
--prepare
option.
The ability to restore individual tables and partitions relies on InnoDB's transportable tablespaces. For MariaDB to import tablespaces like these, InnoDB looks for a file with a
.cfg
extension. For mariadb
-backup
to create these files, you also need to add the
--export
option during the prepare step.
For example, you might execute the following command:
Copy
$ mariadb-backup --prepare --export \
--target-dir=/var/mariadb/backup/ \
--user=mariadb-backup --password=mypassword
If this operation completes without error, then the backup is ready to be restored.
Note
mariadb-backup
did not support the --export option to begin with. See
MDEV-13466
about that. In earlier versions of MariaDB, this means that mariadb-backup could not create
.cfg
files for InnoDB file-per-table tablespaces during the
--prepare
stage. You can still import file-per-table tablespaces without the
.cfg
files in many cases, so it may still be possible in those versions to restore partial backups or to restore individual tables and partitions with just the
.ibd
files. If you have a full backup and you need to create
.cfg
files for InnoDB file-per-table tablespaces, then you can do so by preparing the backup as usual without the
--export
option, and then restoring the backup, and then starting the server. At that point, you can use the server's built-in features to copy the transportable tablespaces.
Restoring the Backup
The restore process for restoring individual tables and/or partitions is quite different than the process for full backups.
Rather than using the
--copy-back
or the
--move-back
, each individual InnoDB file-per-table tablespace file will have to be manually imported into the target server. The process that is used to restore the backup will depend on whether partitioning is involved.
Restoring Individual Non-Partitioned Tables
To restore individual non-partitioned tables from a backup, find the
.ibd
and
.cfg
files for the table in the backup, and then import them using the Importing Transportable Tablespaces for Non-partitioned Tables process.
Restoring Individual Partitions and Partitioned Tables
To restore individual partitions or partitioned tables from a backup, find the
.ibd
and
.cfg
files for the partitions in the backup, and then import them using the
Importing Transportable Tablespaces for Partitioned Tables
process.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Restoring Individual Databases From a Full Backup (mariadb-backup)
Next
Setting up a Replica (mariadb-backup)
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Preparing the Backup
Restoring the Backup
Was this helpful?