Source: https://mariadb.com/docs/server/server-management/automated-mariadb-deployment-and-administration/docker-and-mariadb/container-security-concerns

Container Security | Server | MariaDB Documentation
Webinar | Modernizing High-Volume Payment Systems: Real-Time Architecture and Demo
Watch Now
⌘
Ctrl
k
Download MariaDB
Contact Us
More
MariaDB Server Documentation
Quickstart Guides
Server Usage
Server Management
Deployment
Starting & Stopping
Automated Deployment & Administration
Why to Automate MariaDB Deployments and Management
Comparison Between Automation Systems
Automating MariaDB Tasks with Events
Automating Upgrades with MariaDB.Org Downloads REST API
HashiCorp Vault and MariaDB
Orchestrator Overview
Ansible and MariaDB
Puppet and MariaDB
MariaDB Containers
Adding Plugins to the MariaDB Docker Official Image
Benefits of Managing MariaDB Containers with Orchestration Software
Container Backup and Restoration
Container Security
Creating a Custom Container Image
Deploy MariaDB Enterprise Server with Docker
MariaDB Enterprise Docker Registry for MariaDB Enterprise Server
Docker and AWS EC2
Docker and Google Cloud
Docker and Microsoft Azure
Docker Official Image Frequently Asked Questions
Installing and Using MariaDB via Docker
MariaDB Container Cheat Sheet
MariaDB Enterprise Server Docker Official Image Environment Variables
Setting Up a LAMP Stack with Docker Compose
Using Healthcheck
MariaDB Enterprise Container Image Configuration Reference
Kubernetes and MariaDB
Vagrant and MariaDB
Server Monitoring & Logs
Variables and Modes
Security
Architecture
Clients & Utilities
HA & Performance
Reference
Powered by GitBook
On this page
For the complete documentation index, see
llms.txt
. This page is also available as
Markdown
.
ChatGPT
On this page
Container Security
Discusses security best practices for running MariaDB in containers, addressing topics like root user privileges, volume permissions, and network isolation.
When using containers in production, it is important to be aware of container security concerns.
Host System Security
Depending on the container runtime, containers may be running on the host system's kernel or a kernel shared with other containers. If this kernel has security bugs, those bugs are also present in the containers. Malicious containers may attempt to explain a kernel vulnerability to impact the confidentiality, integrity or availability of other containers.
In particular, Linux based containers have a container runtime that can use the following features:
Namespaces, to isolate containers from each other and make sure that a container can't establish unauthorized connections to another container.
Seccomp security profiles
.
Rootless operation in Docker
, or
Rootless Podman
cgroups
, to limit the resources (CPU, memory, IO) that each container can consume.
The administrators of a system should be particularly careful to upgrade the kernel whenever security bugs to these features are fixed.
It is important to note that when we upgrade the kernel, runC or Docker itself we cause downtime for all the containers running on the system.
Images Security
Containers are built from images. If security is a major concern, you should make sure that the images you use are secure.
If you want to be sure that you are pulling authentic images, you should only pull images signed with
Docker Content Trust
. Signing only ensure authenticity or origin, it doesn't dictate that entity is trustworthy.
Updated images should be used. An image usually downloads packages information at build time. If the image is not recently built, a newly created container will have old packages. Updating the packages on container creation and regularly re-updating them will ensure that the container uses packages with the most recent versions. Rebuilding an image often will reduce the time necessary to update the packages the first time.
Security bugs are usually important for a database server, so you don't want your version of MariaDB to contain known security bugs. But suppose you also have a bug in Docker, in runC, or in the kernel. A bug in a user-facing application may allow an attacker to exploit a bug in those lower level technologies. So, after gaining access to the container, an attacker may gain access to the host system. This is why system administrators should keep both the host system and the software running in the containers updated.
References
For more information, see the following links:
Container Security
from Red Hat.
Docker security
on Docker documentation.
Content initially contributed by
Vettabase Ltd
.
This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
spinner
Previous
Container Backup and Restoration
Next
Creating a Custom Container Image
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?
Host System Security
Images Security
References
Was this helpful?