Source: https://docs.ghost.org/migration/kit#running-ghost-alongside-kit

Migrating from Kit - Ghost Developer Docs
Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at:
/llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Ghost Developer Docs
home page
Search...
⌘
K
Search...
Navigation
Migrating to Ghost
Migrating from Kit
Home
Documentation
Migration Guides
Migrating to Ghost
Migrating from Kit
Migrate from Kit and import your subscribers to Ghost with this guide
​
Overview
Since Kit manages subscriptions on your behalf, there is no direct migration path to move any paid subscriptions from Kit to other platforms.
The good news: Ghost makes it possible to import all of your existing subscriber emails and give them access to premium content on your custom Ghost publication, or to sync your Kit subscribers with Ghost using an automation.
​
Export your subscribers
To get started, export your current subscribers from Kit in CSV format.
​
Import subscribers to Ghost
Under the Ghost Admin members settings, select the import option from the settings menu.
Upload your CSV file to Ghost, and map each of the fields contained in your export file to the corresponding fields in Ghost. The
email
field is required in order to create members in Ghost, while the other fields are optional.
It’s recommended to edit your data as required before uploading your CSV file to Ghost.
Once the import has completed, all your subscribers will be migrated to Ghost. There’s nothing else you need to do, members can now log into your site and receive email newsletters.
​
Running Ghost alongside Kit
It’s also possible to use Zapier or the Ghost API to keep email subscribers from Kit in sync with a Ghost membership site. This is useful if you’re giving your existing audience in Kit access to premium content on a your Ghost site as an additional perk, or if you’re accepting signups on both platforms.
To find out how to connect Ghost with Kit, check out our
integration
.
Suggest edits
Raise issue
Migrating from Squarespace
Migrating from Mailchimp
⌘
I