Source: https://docs.ghost.org/migration/gumroad#export-your-customers

Migrating from Gumroad - Ghost Developer Docs
Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at:
/llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Ghost Developer Docs
home page
Search...
⌘
K
Search...
Navigation
Migrating to Ghost
Migrating from Gumroad
Home
Documentation
Migration Guides
Migrating to Ghost
Migrating from Gumroad
Migrate from Gumroad and import your customers to Ghost with this guide
​
Overview
Since Gumroad manages your subscriptions on your behalf, there is no direct migration path to move your paid subscriptions from Gumroad to other platforms.
The good news: Ghost makes it possible to import all of your existing customer emails and give them access to premium content, or to sync your Gumroad with your Ghost site using an automation.
​
Export your customers
To get started, export your current subscribers from Gumroad in CSV format.
Gumroad allows you to export all customers who have ever purchased from you within a specific date range, or to segment your export per product.
​
Import subscribers to Ghost
Under the Ghost Admin members settings, select the import option from the settings menu.
Upload your CSV file to Ghost, and map each of the fields contained in your export file to the corresponding fields in Ghost. The
email
field is required in order to create members in Ghost, while the other fields are optional.
It’s recommended to edit your data as required before uploading your CSV file to Ghost.
Once the import has completed, all your subscribers will be migrated to Ghost. There’s nothing else you need to do, members can now log into your site and receive email newsletters.
​
Running Ghost alongside Gumroad
It’s also possible to use Zapier or the Ghost API to keep customers who have purchased from you on Gumroad in sync with a Ghost membership site. This is useful if you’re giving your existing customers on Gumroad access to premium content on a custom Ghost site as an additional perk, or if you’re accepting signups on both platforms.
To find out how to connect Ghost with Gumroad, check out our
integration
.
Suggest edits
Raise issue
Migrating from Memberful
Migrating from Jekyll
⌘
I