Source: https://docs.ghost.org/newsletters#bulk-email-configuration

Email Newsletters - Ghost Developer Docs
Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at:
/llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Ghost Developer Docs
home page
Search...
⌘
K
Search...
Navigation
Core Concepts
Email Newsletters
Home
Documentation
Migration Guides
Core Concepts
Email Newsletters
Sites using the Members feature benefit from built-in email newsletters, where all posts can be delivered directly to segments of your audience in just a few clicks.
​
Overview
Email newsletters in Ghost can be scheduled and delivered to free and paid members, or a segment of free
or
paid members. Newsletters are delivered using a beautiful HTML template that is standardised for most popular email clients.
Ghost sites have a single newsletter by default but additional ones can be created and customised. Multiple newsletters allow you to tailor content for specific audiences and your members to choose which content they receive.
​
Bulk email configuration
In order to send email newsletters from a Ghost site, email needs to be configured.
​
Ghost(Pro)
When using
Ghost(Pro)
, email delivery is included and the configuration is handled for you automatically.
​
Self-hosted
Self-hosted Ghost installs can configure bulk email by entering Mailgun API keys from the
Email newsletter
settings.
Delivering bulk email newsletters can’t be done with basic SMTP. A bulk mail provider is a requirement to reliably deliver bulk mail. At present, Mailgun is the only supported bulk email provider. Mailgun is free for up to 600 emails per month, and has very reasonable pricing beyond that.
More info here
​
Auth email
The Members feature uses passwordless email-link based logins for your members. These auth emails are not delivered in bulk and are sent using the standard mail configuration in Ghost.
Self-hosted Ghost installs can
configure mail
using Mailgun or other providers if preferred.
Suggest edits
Raise issue
Recommendations
Security
⌘
I