Source: https://www.tinybird.co/docs/forward/get-data-in/guides/ingest-with-estuary

Ingest with Estuary · Tinybird Docs
Sign In
Sign Up
Ingest with Estuary
¶
Copy as MD
In this guide, you'll learn how to use Estuary to push data streams to Tinybird.
Estuary
is a real-time ETL tool that allows you capture data from a range of source, and push it to a range of destinations. Using Estuary's Dekaf, you can connect Tinybird to Estuary as if it was a Kafka broker - meaning you can use Tinybird's native Kafka Connector to consume data from Estuary.
Read more about Estuary Dekaf.
Prerequisites
¶
An Estuary account and collection
A Tinybird account and workspace
Connecting to Estuary
¶
In Estuary, create a new Dekaf materialization to use for the Tinybird connection.
You can create it from the
Estuary destinations tab
.
You have all the details on the
Tinybird Dekaf Estuary docs page.
In your Tinybird workspace, create a new data source and use the
Kafka Connector
.
To configure the connection details, use the following settings (these can also be found in the
Estuary Dekaf docs
).
Bootstrap servers:
dekaf.estuary-data.com
SASL Mechanism:
PLAIN
SASL Username: Your materialization task name, such as
YOUR-ORG/YOUR-PREFIX/YOUR-MATERIALIZATION
SASL Password: Auth token provided when you the Dekaf materialization was created on Estuary
Tick the
Decode Avro messages with Schema Register
box, and use the following settings:
URL:
https://dekaf.estuary-data.com
Username: The same Materialization name from the preceding step,
YOUR-ORG/YOUR-PREFIX/YOUR-MATERIALIZATION
Password: The same Auth token created on the Dekaf materialization from the preceding step
Select
Next
and you see a list of topics. These topics are the collections you have in Estuary. Select the collection you want to ingest into Tinybird, and select
Next
.
Configure your consumer group as needed.
Finally, you see a preview of the data source schema. Feel free to make any modifications as required, then select
Create data source
.
This completes the connection with Estuary, and new data from the Estuary collection arrives in your Tinybird data source in real-time.
If you need
support for deletions
, check the
configuring support for deletions
section on Estuary docs.
Handling updates and deletes
¶
When capturing change data that includes updates and deletes, you need to deduplicate the data in Tinybird to maintain the latest state.
There are several strategies to deduplicate data in your data source, but with Estuary, the recommended approach is to use a
ReplacingMergeTree engine
with appropriate settings and the
FINAL
modifier.
Do not build materialized views with an AggregatingMergeTree on top of a ReplacingMergeTree. The target data source always contains duplicates due to the incremental nature of materialized views.
Learn more
¶
For a complete step-by-step tutorial on setting up CDC with PostgreSQL, Estuary Flow, and Tinybird, see the
From CDC to real-time analytics with Tinybird and Estuary
blog post.
Updated
4 weeks ago
Looking for Classic docs?
On this page
Ingest with Estuary
Prerequisites
Connecting to Estuary
Handling updates and deletes
Learn more
forward
Ask AI