Source: https://www.tinybird.com/docs/classic/work-with-data/organize-your-work

Classic: Continuous Integration Introduction · Tinybird Docs
Sign In
Sign Up
You are viewing Classic documentation.
View the latest Forward docs →
Prepare your data project for production
¶
Copy as MD
Tinybird's Git integration transforms data pipeline management, aligning it with established software development practices. This ensures each Tinybird Workspace action relates to a specific Git commit, offering a robust, version-controlled environment for your real-time data deployments. In a nutshell, it brings your workflow closer to industry best practices.
Why use version control?
¶
Version control, a standard in software development, is now integral to building real-time data products with Tinybird. If your Workspace uses Tinybird's integration with Git, it means you can build real-time data products like you build any software - not just benefiting from version control, but also isolated environments, CI/CD, and testing too.
This approach allows you to treat and manage your real-time data in the
same way you manage your code
. You can take your existing software engineering knowledge and apply the same principles to real-time data products.
When managing your Tinybird projects with version control, you can also:
Sync Tinybird actions with your Git commits.
Deploy semantically-versioned Data Sources, Pipes, and API Endpoints as code.
Use Branches to attach production data to non-production Branches, and test your data pipelines safely with real data.
If you're familiar with version control already, it should make testing, merging, and deploying your Tinybird data projects a familiar process.
Data teams can use Tinybird in the same way that software engineering teams work: To enforce standardized agreements to use version control, code reviews, quality assurance, testing strategies, and continuous deployment.
Next steps
¶
Get familiar with the core concepts:
Branches
and
Workspaces
.
Follow the version control tutorial to connect your Tinybird Workspace to version control:
Working with version control
.
Explore our
repository of common use cases for iterating using version control
to explore and try out how to iterate Tinybird projects with version control.
Updated
1 year ago
On this page
Prepare your data project for production
Why use version control?
Next steps
classic
Ask AI