Source: https://www.tinybird.com/docs/use-cases

Use Cases · Tinybird Docs
Sign In
Sign Up
Docs
API reference
SQL reference
Use Case Hub
¶
Copy as MD
Tinybird is the data platform for building real-time, user-facing analytics.
This Use Case Hub provides centralized resources to help you understand and build specific solutions for your project.
Examples
¶
The top 5 most popular ways people are using Tinybird to build user-facing analytics features:
Want to provide a real-time, beautiful dashboard for your users? -->
User-facing dashboards
.
Need to build a change data capture (CDC) system for your database? -->
Real-time Change Data Capture (CDC)
.
Looking to level up your game with leaderboards, match-making, and personalized in-game ads? -->
Gaming analytics
.
Want to build a way to monitor and analyze your web traffic? -->
Web analytics
.
Already know that the secret to amazing UX in your app is personalization? -->
Real-time personalization
.
Need a way for your content creators to analyze their content performance? -->
User-generated content (UGC) analytics
.
Need to build a content recommendation system? -->
Content recommendation systems
.
Want to learn how to build a vector search system using real-time data? -->
Vector search
.
Explore the nav for more.
Not sure where to start?
¶
Read the
Tinybird "Definitive Guide To Real-Time User-Facing Analytics" blog post
.
Customer stories
¶
Learn how Tinybird customers have built user-facing analytics.
Audiense evolves its social media timeline with Tinybird
Canva designs brilliant user experiences with Tinybird
Dub shortens time to market for user-facing analytics with Tinybird
Factorial builds real-time data products with Tinybird
FanDuel harnesses the power of real-time data using Tinybird
Genially uses Tinybird to display real-time content interaction metrics for their customers
Smartme Analytics builds complete consumer insights with Tinybird
Vercel uses Tinybird to help developers ship code faster
Updated
2 years ago
forward
classic
Ask AI