Source: https://www.tinybird.com/docs/forward/guides/migrate-from-classic-without-connectors

Migrate from Classic without connectors · Tinybird Docs
Sign In
Sign Up
Migrate from Classic without connectors
¶
Copy as MD
Follow this path if your project ingests data through the Events API, direct HTTP requests, or any other method that doesn't rely on a managed connector. This is the fastest path to Forward and can be run entirely from the CLI.
If your project uses S3, GCS, Kafka, DynamoDB, or other managed connectors, follow
Migrate with connectors
instead.
Prerequisites
¶
Install
uv
to run the one required Classic CLI command via
uvx
without installing
tinybird-cli
globally. This avoids the version conflicts that can occur when both CLIs are installed globally (they both use the
tb
command).
Uninstall the Classic CLI
¶
If you have the Tinybird Classic CLI installed globally, uninstall it before installing Forward. Both CLIs use the
tb
command, so having both installed causes version conflicts:
pip uninstall tinybird-cli
If you installed the Classic CLI inside a virtual environment, activate it first or run
pip uninstall
against the right interpreter (for example,
python3 -m pip uninstall tinybird-cli
).
Install the Tinybird Forward CLI
¶
Run the following command to install the Tinybird Forward CLI:
For macOS and Linux
For Windows
curl https://tinybird.co | sh
After installing, run
tb --version
to confirm
tb
resolves to the Forward CLI. See
Tinybird Local
for more information.
Migrate your workspace
¶
1
Authenticate to your workspace
¶
Log in to your workspace with the Classic CLI. This creates a
.tinyb
file in the current directory if one doesn't already exist:
uvx --from tinybird-cli@latest tb auth --host <HOST>
# Example: uvx --from tinybird-cli@latest tb auth --host https://api.europe-west2.gcp.tinybird.co
Replace
<HOST>
with your workspace's
API region host
. The CLI then prompts you for your workspace admin token.
2
Pull your project
¶
Download your datafiles from Tinybird Cloud with the Forward CLI:
tb --cloud pull
This command overwrites files in your local repo. Because the pull structures directories following Tinybird's guidelines, remove any existing data source and pipe files from your local repo before running it. You can reorganize the resulting files afterwards if you prefer a different layout.
3
Migrate to Forward
¶
Run the migration command:
tb migrate-to-forward
This command deletes branches and releases, runs a deploy check, generates a
tinybird.config.json
file, switches the workspace to Forward, and deploys it.
If you have CI/CD configured, push the changes to your repository to complete the migration. See
CI/CD
for details on the CI workflow, CD workflow, and creating preview deployments.
If you don't have CI/CD configured, the migration is complete after this step.
The migration is complete! Your project will continue working as expected; you do not need to change your tokens, endpoint URLs, or anything else.
Next steps
¶
Learn about working with Forward in the
Forward documentation
.
Updated
4 weeks ago
Looking for Classic docs?
On this page
Migrate from Classic without connectors
Prerequisites
Uninstall the Classic CLI
Install the Tinybird Forward CLI
Migrate your workspace
Authenticate to your workspace
Pull your project
Migrate to Forward
Next steps
forward
Ask AI